HDB Financial Services| FAQs| HDBFS

HDB Financial Services| FAQs| HDBFS
Accept
Decline
Apply Now
Whatsapp
Download App
WhatsApp
Web
#ASKPRIYA
WhatsApp
Call Us
Locate Us
Pay your EMI
My Account
Download App
Apply Now
Reach Us
More
FAQs
Home
Customer Services
FAQs
COVID-19 Moratorium 2.0 FAQs
Mobile App - HDB OnTheGo
From where can I download "HDB OnTheGo" mobile app?
The HDB OnTheGo mobile app can be downloaded from Google Play Store/ Apple App Store or by
simply clicking the
Download App
Link. This mobile app is currently available for Android & IOS users.
Can I access your mobile app "HDB OnTheGo" offline?
HDB OnTheGo mobile app is available online only.
How to use the mobile app, in case I use Dual SIM in my device?
In case, you are using a Dual SIM mobile, we request you to ensure that the SIM card of your registered
mobile number as updated in our loan records is placed in SLOT 1 only.
I am your existing customer. However, I had not given my mobile number at the time of loan application.
Only landline
number was shared. Is it possible for me to view my loan application details on "HDB OnTheGo" mobile
app?
We request you to register the mobile number by raising a request in branch for updating your mobile
number in our records. Post successful updation of your mobile number you can use our HDB OnTheGo Mobile
App.
You can find the branch address nearest to you by using our Branch Locator option. Please
Click Here
for details. Alternatively, you can type HDB Financial Services in Google Maps and get the location of
the branch nearest to you. All our branches are tagged in Google Maps.
Can I access my previous loan details in "HDB OnTheGo" & Web portal?
Active and Closed loans can be viewed in HDB OnTheGo mobile app.
Active & Closed loans can be viewed in Customer Portal by visiting HDB website and click on
My Account
option.
Alternate Payment Mode
This month EMI got bounced. What is the process for online payment?
Login to our website
www.hdbfs.com
& click on "Pay online" option on the Top right corner of the page and follow the process mentioned. You
will be securely directed to the payment screen of your chosen bank. You can then make the payment through
your net banking.
CIBIL
Can my repayment track be overwritten in Credit Bureau data base?
We report data to Credit Bureaus on a regular basis. Thus, in case of a delinquent loan, if a customer has
cleared his/her over dues in the current month, the repayment tracks in his/her credit report will be
uploaded from current month onwards only. The records for previous period will however continue to reflect
the past repayment behavior.
How many days does it take to update my payment status in records of Credit Bureaus (Cbs)?
Customer's account information is sent to CIBIL month on month for update into Credit Bureau's database.
It generally takes 30 days from the month-end to update the record in Credit Bureaus database.
Contact Details
How can I get my communication address changed in my loan account?
In case you wish to change the communication address, please submit the following documents at our branch:
Miscellaneous service request form
Self Attested copy of your new address proof along with the originals for validation.
CKYC application form as per the prescribed format in Annexure A1
Click here for
"Miscellaneous Service Request Form" & "Annexure A1".
After necessary verification by our branch, the new address will be updated in our records within 7
working days
How can I get my email ID updated to my loan account?
You can update your email ID in the below ways:
1. Call customer support at
+91 44 4298 4541
(10:00 am to 6:00 pm, Monday to
Friday, excluding national and regional holidays). Enter your loan account number, select
your preferred language, and place your request.
2. Provide a request for email ID Updation through mobile app "HDB OnTheGo", you can download that from
Google Play Store/ Apple App Store or by simply clicking the
Download App
Link. This mobile app is currently available for Android & IOS users.
3.You can write to us at
customer.support@hdbfs.com
& can also visit our branch
It will be updated within 3 working days
How can I find the branch address nearest to me?
You can find the branch address nearest to you by using our Branch Locator option. Please
Click Here
for details. Alternatively, you can type HDB Financial Services in Google Maps and get the location of the
branch nearest to you. All our branches are tagged in Google Maps.
EMI Related Details
What is the balance number of EMIs I have to pay ?
To view the number of EMIs remaining and other details related to your loan
account, log in to our website
www.hdbfs.com
and click on My Account. Enter your
registered mobile number, DOB or PAN number, and CAPTCHA, then click Send OTP.
After verifying the OTP, you can view your loan details.
You can also download our mobile app “HDB OnTheGo” from the Google Play Store or
Apple App Store, or by clicking the
Download App
link. The app is currently available for
both Android and iOS users. Alternatively, you can call our call center team at 044-4298 4541 (10:00 am to 6:00 pm,
Monday to Friday, excluding national and regional holidays) to place a loan request, or write
to us at
customer.support@hdbfs.com
What are the options to pay the Equated Monthly Installments (EMI)?
You can pay the EMI through ACH (Automated Clearing House). In case you wish to avail the ACH facility,
please contact your nearest branch
Click Here
for our Branch Locator" or write to us at:
customer.support@hdbfs.com
or raise a service request from our mobile app "HDB OnTheGo".
How do I change my EMI due date?
Please submit the miscellaneous service request form and copy of bank statements at our branch clearly
mentioning the reason for change in Due date. The interest for the period by which EMI due date is
shifted, would be payable. After necessary verification by our branch the revised EMI Due date will be
effected within 15 working days from date payment of interest / charges.
How many days will it take to update EMI clearance status in my loan account?
Post EMI presentation, EMI clearance status will be updated to your loan account in 3 working days. To
view the status and other details relating to your loan account, kindly login to our website
www.hdbfs.com
and
click
on My Account . Enter the registered mobile number, DOB or PAN number , CAPCHA & hit on send OTP, post
verifying the OTP the details can be viewed. Also please download our mobile app "HDB OnTheGo" from
Google Play Store/ Apple App Store or by simply clicking the
Download App
Link. This mobile app is currently available for Android & IOS users. You can also verify EMI clearance
status with your banker.
Fees / Charges
For loan against property are there any legal fees or charges to be paid?
With respect to fees / charges, you can visit our website
www.hdbfs.com
, click on customer support and the details are available in "Interest Rates & Charges" This is to
ensure proper valuation and legal clearance of the proposed property is carried out before loan
sanction. Please note the application fee towards legal and valuation is non-refundable irrespective of
whether the loan is sanctioned or not.
What is the account maintenance charges in LAP-Credit Line facility?
Account maintenance charges refer to the fees levied on customer for maintaining the disbursed amount in credit line account by HDB Financial Services. These charges ensure that the customer can access the sanctioned amount at any given time.
What will be the frequency at which this charge will be levied to my account?
It will be applicable Quarterly in your credit line account.
Whether non-payment of the charge can obstruct my credit line facility?
Yes, as the non payment of the charge can hinder the flow of the credit line due to the expenses which HDB Financial Services Ltd. has to bear in keeping the credit line floating as per your requirement.
Is this charge part of the terms and condition of this facility?
Yes, this charge is a part of the terms and condition of credit line facility.
Insurance
What is the advantage of availing Insurance under a "Group Term Life" policy?
The advantage of a Group Term Life Policy is that you get an Insurance cover at a lower rate as compared
to an Individual term plan. The dynamics of the group help the Insurance company provide a finer rate
for a group insurance policy.
The Group term policy has a short medical questionnaire (SMQ). What will be the impact if I give
incorrect information on the SMQ?
Any Insurance Policy is a contract of utmost good faith, meaning that it is based on the assumptions
that all information provided by the buyer is true. Policy is a contract, the basis of which is the form
and SMQ that is filled by the insured, any incorrect information makes the contract void Ab Initio and
the Insurance company can deny the claim on the basis of incorrect information.
Is it mandatory to purchase an insurance policy from HDB financial services when I avail a loan from HDB
Financial Services?
No, it is not mandatory to purchase an Insurance Policy from us for availing a loan. However, it is
mandatory to insure any collateral like Property, Vehicle, etc. against which the loan has been availed.
As per Motor Vehicles Act, a vehicle can be released on road only after an insurance policy has been
purchased for the vehicle. A vehicle financed by HDB Financial Services Ltd. needs to be covered by a
Comprehensive Insurance policy. Additionally, the Insurance policy needs to have a hypothecation in
favor of the financier, ie HDB Financial Services Limited.
If you are providing a property as collateral for your loan, the same needs to be insured under
"Standard Fire & Special Perils " policy. If the property has an existing insurance cover, the same has
to be assigned in favor of HDB Financial Services Limited.
It is the responsibility of the borrower to ensure that the collateral is adequately insured at all
times during the tenure of the loan.
I have paid off my loan. How do I remove the assignment of my policy in favor of HDB Financial Services
Limited?
(i) In case of a Motor Vehicle, you need to take the Loan closure Letter provided by HDBFS to the RTO
and get the lien removed from the Registration certificate (RC book). Once the new RC is provided by the
RTO, you need to provide the same to the Insurance company which will remove the assignment favoring
HDBFS.
(ii) You need to submit Loan closure letter provided by HDBFS to the Insurance company and they shall
remove the assignment
What is the process or whom should I contact for Credit Protect Plus Insurance claim?
Please submit insurance claim form and relevant documents to our branch for processing the death claim.
Please
click here
for "Branch Locator" to identify our nearest branch.
"
Click here
to view check-list for claim processing"
"
Click here
to download Claim Form"
Lead
As an existing customer of HDB, can I avail another loan?
You can avail another loan depending on your previous loan repayment record. For more information,
please contact your nearest branch or write to us at
customer.support@hdbfs.com
We also offer pre-approved loans. The same can be checked in the home page of our mobile app
"HDB OnTheGo" from where you can apply for a new loan or login to our website
www.hdbfs.com
click on Products, select the product basis your requirement and click on Apply Now, alternatively you
can call the call center team at 044 - 4298 4541 (10.00 am to 06:00 pm, Monday - Friday, excluding
national holidays & Regional holidays) and place a loan request
Loan Cancellation
I have not utilized the loan disbursed. Can I cancel the loan?
To cancel the loan, request has to be submitted to our branch within 7 days from the date of
disbursement. Loan cancellation charges will be applicable and the charges applicable are detailed in
"Interest Rates & Charges" under Customer Support page in our website
www.hdbfs.com
. Please contact your nearest branch
Click Here
for our Branch Locator. Alternatively, you can type HDB Financial Services in Google Maps and get the
location of the branch nearest to you. All our branches are tagged in Google Maps.
Loan Closure
What happens after I have paid the last installment?
1. Post loan closure, NOC link is sent via SMS & email to customer registered email id / phone number,
email Noc communication is currently sent to CD/DPL/PL products and SMS link communication going to
CD/DPL alone & link is valid only for 10 days
2. A No dues letter will be issued on request on closure of loans in our records. In case you have a
Loan against Property, the property papers will be returned to you within 15 working days from date of
clearance of payment amount. If you have not received the property papers, please contact our branch or
write to us at:
customer.support@hdbfs.com
or raise a service request from our mobile app "HDB OnTheGo".
3. Call the customer support at
+91 44 4298 4541
(10:00 am to 06:00 pm, Monday - Friday, excluding national holidays & Regional holidays ) enter your
loan account number and select your preferred language, and place the request
How can I get my un-banked PDC or security PDCs after loan closure?
The un-banked PDCs / SPDCs are destroyed after loan closure.
Loan Related Details
From where can I get to know the status of my loan application
You can view the status of your loan application by logging into our website
www.hdbfs.com
and click on My Account. Enter the registered mobile number, DOB or PAN number, CAPCHA & hit on send
OTP, post verifying the OTP the details can be viewed. Also, download our mobile app "HDB OnTheGo"
from Google play store and start viewing real time status of loan application irrespective of the
channel through which you had applied the loan. You can also visit our branch or write to us at:
customer.support@hdbfs.com
for the same.
How do I get information on my existing loan?
You can get information such as the outstanding loan amount, number of installments paid or remaining
installments, etc. by logging into our website
www.hdbfs.com
and click on My Account. Enter the registered mobile number, DOB & PAN Number, CAPCHA & hit on send OTP,
post verifying the OTP the details can be viewed. Android users can also use the "HDB OnTheGo" mobile
app and view the loan summary section. You can also get information by visiting our nearest branch in
your city or write to us at:
customer.support@hdbfs.com
NOC
My vehicle / equipment loan is closed, when will I get the NOC along with Form 35?
On closure of your vehicle / equipment loan, we kindly request you to submit a written request to our
branch seeking NOC & Form 35. Our branch official will review your request and issue the NOC within 10
working days from date of request submission at branch. You can also write to us at:
customer.support@hdbfs.com
or raise a service request in our mobile app "HDB OnTheGo" regarding your queries on the same.
Others
What is Central KYC Registry?
Central KYC Registry is a centralized repository of KYC records of customers in the financial sector
with uniform KYC norms and inter-usability of the KYC records across the sector with an objective to
reduce the burden of producing KYC documents and getting those verified every time when the customer
creates a new relationship with a financial entity.
What documents of customers are uploaded on the Central KYC Registry?
The scanned copy of the certified supporting documents (Proof of Identity / Proof of Address), cropped
signature and photograph are uploaded on the Central KYC Registry for each borrower (Main borrower,
co-borrowers & Guarantors).
Pre-Payment
Can I prepay my loan? What are the prepayment charges?
You can prepay your loan anytime during the tenure. Please visit any of our branches with a Prepayment
request form as per format with supporting documents. Prepayment charges are applicable on early closure
of loans. You can view the prepayment charges grid in "Interest rates & Charges" column under Customer
Support page in our website
www.hdbfs.com
. Please click here for the
Prepayment request form
.
Conditions apply
How long does it take to issue prepayment statement after submitting prepayment form at your branch?
As per the terms and conditions enumerated in the loan agreement you need to provide HDBFSL a notice of
30 days (LAP/LARR/EBL/CV/ CE) and 15 days in case of PL to process your prepayment request.
Can I prepay my loan by cash?
For all loans, prepayment can be made using RTGS/NEFT/DD/Cheque from own account. However cash payments
can only be made for Loan against Gold jewelery, Consumer Durable & Digital Product Loans below Rs.
1,00,000 (total of all existing loans). Please note that cash handling charges will apply, if you choose
to repay your loan by cash, Cash handling charges of Rs.1/- per Rs.100/- is applicable and to be paid at
the
time of closing the loan.
Refund
Have made excess payment in my loan account, when will the same be refunded?
In case of excess payment, you can follow the below steps :
1. Call the customer support at
+91 44 4298 4541
(10:00 am to 06:00 pm, Monday - Friday, excluding national holidays & Regional holidays ) enter your loan
account number and select your language comfort, press 3 to place a refund request, after due
verification, the excess amount will be refunded to your repayment account by way of electronic transfer.
2. You can also submit refund request form at our branch -
"Click Here"
for Refund Request Form:
3. You can write to us at
customer.support@hdbfs.com
Statement / Document Requests
How can I get Interest Certificate of my Loan?
Interest Certificate of your loan can be downloaded from our Mobile App "HDB OnTheGo". You can also
visit our branch or write to us at:
customer.support@hdbfs.com
for obtaining the same. Alternatively you can call the call center team at 044 - 4298 4541 (10.00 am to
06:00 pm, Monday to Friday, excluding national holidays & Regional holidays) and place a loan request.
How can I get Statement of my Loan Account?
Statement of Account is a chargeable request. The product wise charges applicable are detailed under
"Interest rates & Charges" under Customer Support page in our website
www.hdbfs.com
. Statement of loan account can be obtained through
below ways
1. You can view the summary of your loan or last 5 or future 5 transactions by logging into our website
www.hdbfs.com
and click on My Account. Enter the registered mobile number, DOB or PAN number, CAPCHA & hit on send OTP,
post verifying the OTP the details can be viewed.
2. Alternatively, if you wish to view only summary of your loan or last 5 or future 5 transactions in your
loan account, you can view the same from our mobile app "HDB OnTheGo" under Loan Summary Section. - This
is currently unavailable in Mobile App
3. Call the customer support at
+ 91 44 4298 4541
(10:00 am to 06:00 pm, Monday - Friday, excluding national holidays & Regional holidays ) enter your loan
account number and select your language comfort, and place the request
4. You can write to us at
customer.support@hdbfs.com
& can also visit our branch
How can I get Repayment Schedule of my Loan?
Repayment Schedule of your loan can be downloaded through below ways
1. Repayment Schedule of your loan can be downloaded from our Mobile App "HDB OnTheGo"
3. Call the customer support at
+91 44 4298 4541
(10:00 am to 06:00 pm, Monday - Friday, excluding national holidays & Regional holidays ) enter your loan
account number and select your language comfort, and place the request
4. You can write to us at
customer.support@hdbfs.com
& can also visit our branch
How do I get Welcome Letter?
For new customers, Welcome kit will be delivered to your communication address as per our records & it is
also sent to your registered email id within 30 days from date of disbursement. If you are an existing
customer and need another copy of welcome letter, you can visit our branch or write to us at
customer.support@hdbfs.com
from your registered email ID or raise a service request from our mobile app "HDB OnTheGo".
I would like to get a photocopy of property documents submitted to you as collateral against my loan?
Photocopy of documents is a chargeable request. The charges applicable are detailed under "Interest rates
& Charges" under Customer Support page in our website
www.hdbfs.com
. Photocopy of documents can be obtained from our branch
by submitting miscellaneous service request form along with applicable charges.
I need loan statement for my Income Tax purpose?
1. For income tax purpose, you can download your Interest Certificate from our mobile app "HDB OnTheGo"
App. The HDB OnTheGo mobile app can be downloaded from Google Play Store/ Apple App Store or by
simply clicking the
Download App
Link. This mobile app is currently available for Android & IOS users.
2. Call the customer support at
+91 44 4298 4541
(10:00 am to 06:00 pm, Monday - Friday, excluding national holidays & Regional holidays ) enter your loan
account number and select your language comfort, and place the request
3. You can write to us at
customer.support@hdbfs.com
& can also visit our branch
How can I get copy of these sanction letter for my loan against property availed from HDB?
Photocopy of sanction letter is a chargeable request. The charges applicable are detailed in "Interest
Rates & Charges" under Customer Support page in our website
www.hdbfs.com
. Photocopy of sanction letter can be obtained from our
branch by submitting the miscellaneous service request form along with applicable charges. Please contact
your nearest branch
Click Here
for our Branch Locator. Alternatively, you can type HDB Financial Services in Google Maps and get the
location of the branch nearest to you. All our branches are tagged in Google Maps.
How to get Collateral documents in the event of demise of sole borrower or joint borrowers?
To know about our process for Collateral document handover in the event of demise of sole borrower/ joint
borrowers or if you are a legal heir of the borrower who is holding a loan account with us, please
Click here
.
Loan Settlement
I want to settle my HDB Financial Services loan. What is the process?
There is no provision in the loan agreement with the borrower for settlement of loans.
Any agreement with borrower on the amount payable to settle the loan may be offered by HDB Financial
Services Ltd at its sole discretion.
How does a Loan settlement affect my Credit Score?
Under the Credit Information Companies (Regulations) Act, 2005, Information of loan repayment is
shared with Credit Information Bureau of India Ltd. (CIBIL) or any other Credit rating agency /
Regulatory body.
Where HDBFSL offers a settlement plan to close the loan, the status of the borrower is displayed as
'Settled' in the records of Credit Bureaus
As against a 'closed' loan where a borrower pays his due in full, a 'settled' loan may be considered
as negative behaviour by potential lenders / credit bureaus.
This may bring down your credit score and adversely impact your ability to avail credit in future.
Swapping
How can I change my repayment loan from one bank account to another?
Please submit a fresh ACH Mandate from your new Bank account along with service request form at our
branch. This service is charged as detailed under "Interest rates & Charges" - Refer PDC/ECS swap charges
(per swap) under Customer Support page in our website www.hdbfs.com. On completion of internal checks, new
bank account will be activated within 45 days of submission of request along with payment of applicable
charges. "
Click
here
for Miscellaneous Service Request Form / on ACH Form and the time scale to change the bank details would
be 45 working days.
Emandate/eNACH
What is an Emandate for loan repayment?
An Emandate or eNACH for loan repayment is an electronic authorization given by customer to HDBFS allowing to automatically debit the EMI amount from his/her bank account on a specified due date.
How to create the Emandate for loan repayment?
Customer can submit the Emandate for his/her loan repayment by visiting HDBFS website.
Click here
What are the different modes available for registering an Emandate?
eNACH mandate can be registered instantly using Aadhaar, Net Banking or Debit Card details as per the facility provided by customer bank. Customer can view the Emandate acceptance instantly in these 3 modes.
Customer can also sign eNACH mandate using Aadhaar credentials and submit for registration.
Can physical mandate be submitted instead of Emandate?
Physical NACH mandate can be submitted by visiting nearest HDBFS Branch if Emandate is not registered for any technical reason or customer bank is not offering the Emandate registration facility.
Can mandate registered for loan repayment be cancelled?
Customer can submit the NACH mandate cancellation request by visiting HDBFS Customer Service Portal (CSP).
Click
here
Cancellation request can be submitted for both Physical and Emandates registered towards repayment of loan. Customer to click ‘Mandate Cancellation’ tab and select the cancellation reason from the drop down list provided.
What will be the reasons for which mandate cancellation request can be raised?
Customer can raise mandate cancellation request if his/her loan account is closed in HDBFS records. In exception cases where customer bank account is closed or remain inactive, cancellation request can be raised. HDBFS will verify the request received and acknowledges the acceptance or rejection status to customer.
Customer should note that auto debit of EMI on due date will not be possible if mandate is cancelled. Further non payment of EMI on due date will attract late fee and penalties.
Can mandate cancelled be revoked and made active again
Mandate once cancelled cannot be revoked. Customer has to visit nearest HDBFS Branch and submit a fresh mandate for registration.
What about charges payable for mandate creation and cancellation?
HDBFS doesn’t levy any charges for mandate creation and cancellation.
Can mandate be suspended on a temporary basis?
EMI can be stopped from presentation if customer has paid the EMI in advance or Prepayment of loan is done.
Customer can submit the stop EMI presentation request by visiting HDBFS Customer Service Portal (CSP)
Click here
. HDBFS will validate the request received and acknowledges the acceptance or rejection status to customer.
TDS
What is the Procedure for Refund of Tax deduction at source (TDS) on interest?
All repayments to be made by the borrower to HDBFS shall be made free and clear of, and without any
deduction whatsoever including Tax Deduction at Source (TDS). The borrower shall deposit an amount
equivalent to the TDS with the government treasury and provide HDBFS the TDS certificate in Form No. 16A
downloaded from the TRACES website on a quarterly basis. Further, the TDS amount should be reflected in
the FORM 26AS statement of HDBFS with 'F' status. HDBFS will refund to the borrower an amount equivalent
to the TDS amount within 15 working days of the borrower furnishing the TDS certificate in the manner
aforesaid on a quarterly basis at respective branch. However, the TDS refund claim will be entertained by
HDBFS within one year from the end of the year in which TDS is deductible. Please
click here
for the TDS Refund request form.
Loans
Personal Loan
Salaried Personal Loan
Business
Loan
Micro
Lending Loan
Auto Loan
Two Wheeler Loan
Gold Loan
Loan Against Property
Enterprise
Business Loan
Commercial Vehicle
Loan
Construction Equipment Loan
Tractor Loan
Consumer
Durables Loan
Digital Product Loan
Lifestyle Product Loan